# b37a6dcf-3b48-41df-9837-4460b5f64179

## Metadata

| Field | Value |
| --- | --- |
| **Age Group** | unspecified |
| **Behavior Type** | digital |
| **Created At** | 2026-06-05T21:37:47.501813+00:00 |
| **Domain** | digital_safety |
| **Keywords** |  |
| **Language** | en |
| **Source File** | Gaming_Disorder_Focus_WHO.pdf |
| **Source Url** |  |

## Text Original

> 382
> Bull World Health Organ 2019;97:382–383 | doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.2471/BLT.19.020619
> News
> Dr Susumu Higuchi has no doubt about 
> the mental health risks posed by on-line 
> gaming.
> He heads the Kurihama Medical 
> and Addiction Centre in Kanagawa 
> Prefecture, Japan, which started the 
> country’s first programme for internet 
> addiction in 2011. There are now 84 
> nationwide. Higuchi has watched the 
> number of patients addicted to on-line 
> gaming steadily grow.
> “Of the 269 patients we now see 
> for internet addiction, 241 have gaming 
> disorder as their principal addiction”, he 
> says. “Of those, 215 are males.”
> The patients Higuchi sees display 
> a range of symptoms, but are generally 
> unable to limit the time they spend gam-
> ing and continue to play despite negative 
> consequences, such as dropping out of 
> school (almost three quarters of the 
> patients are students) or losing a job.
> No national survey of gaming dis-
> order has been undertaken in Japan. 
> However, a recent national survey of 
> the broader category of “internet addic-
> tion” reported that approximately 1.82 
> million males 20 years of age and older, 
> were living with an internet addiction 
> in 2018, almost three times the number 
> reported in 2013. The same survey re-
> ported 1.3 million adult females living 
> with internet addiction, up from 0.5 
> million in 2013.
> Higuchi co-authored a recent lit-
> erature review - Cross-sectional and 
> longitudinal epidemiological studies of 
> internet gaming disorder – that found a 
> prevalence of internet gaming disorder 
> in the samples reviewed ranging from 
> 0.7% to 27.5%.
> “The literature review revealed 
> that geographical region made little 
> difference to prevalence,” says Vladi-
> mir Poznyak, an expert on substance 
> use and addictive behaviours at the 
> World Health Organization (WHO), 
> who points to several surveys showing 
> internet gaming disorder prevalence 
> between 1%-10% in Europe and North 
> America.
> “Because of differences in survey 
> quality and comparability, the exact size 
> and nature of that problem is yet to be 
> defined,” he says, “but it is clear there is 
> a problem.”
> In Switzerland, a report commis-
> sioned by the Federal Office of Pub-
> lic Health published in 2018 found that 
> around 1% of the population (approxi-
> mately 70 000 people) are “problematic” 
> internet users.
> One of the experts consulted for 
> that report – Dr Sophia Achab – runs 
> a behavioural addiction programme 
> at the University Hospital of Geneva 
> where, since 2007, she has been treating 
> patients for internet-use disorders rang-
> ing from addiction to on-line gambling 
> to internet pornography.
> “
> Addiction to 
> gaming is harder to 
> treat than addiction 
> to alcohol or drugs 
> because the internet is 
> everywhere.”
> Susumu Higuchi
> Like Higuchi, Achab has seen a 
> steady increase in on-line gaming dis-
> order patients, as well as an increasing 
> proportion of younger, male patients. 
> “Today, 43 of our 110 patients with in-
> ternet addiction are primarily addicted 
> to gaming, 40 of them boys and young 
> men, and just three girls,” she says.
> Among the people that have left 
> the deepest impression on Achab, was 
> a 22-year-old man who was brought 
> in by his mother. “He had dropped out 
> of school two years earlier and refused 
> to leave his room where he played for 
> 18 hours a day. He was suffering blood 
> clots in his legs due to physical inactiv-
> ity,” she says.
> Treating such patients is extremely 
> challenging, partly because of the 
> ubiquity of the internet. “In some ways 
> addiction to gaming is harder to treat 
> than addiction to alcohol or drugs be-
> cause the internet is everywhere,” says 
> Higuchi.
> Another challenge is the way the 
> games themselves are designed.
> The nature of the game played is 
> one of the three factors considered by 
> Achab in her assessment of patient expo-
> sure to addiction risk, the others being 
> individual factors, such as self-esteem, 
> and environmental factors, such as the 
> home, school or work environment.
> For Achab, the presence of reward 
> systems (often mediated through virtual 
> ‘loot boxes’) offering virtual items such 
> as weapons and armour or ‘real’ rewards, 
> such as video streaming subscriptions, 
> are red flags. “Rewards drive players to 
> rack up the hours in pursuit of virtual or 
> real-world gains,” she explains.
> Sharpening the focus on gaming disorder
> The definition of gaming disorder is an important first step in developing a public health response to a new problem. 
> Gary Humphreys reports.
> Staff at the Kurihama Medical and Addiction Centre, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan.
> Courtesy of Kurihama Medical and Addiction Centre
> 383
> Bull World Health Organ 2019;97:382–383| doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.2471/BLT.19.020619
> News
> For Higuchi, multiplayer on-line 
> games are also a matter of concern. “Such 
> games provide opportunities to play and 
> compete with others, which would be 
> compelling for most people, but particu-
> larly for those who might otherwise find 
> it hard to socialize,” he says.
> Higuchi also points to games that 
> encourage players to compete in tour-
> naments and competitions for prize 
> money. “Many of my patients talk about 
> making a living from game play,” he 
> says. “This belief feeds into the broader 
> pathology.”
> Approaches to treating those with 
> on-line gaming disorder tend to focus 
> on getting the patient to recognize their 
> addiction and to reconnect them with 
> reality. Higuchi uses a mix of cognitive 
> behavioural therapy, social skills devel-
> opment, and treatment programmes em-
> phasising physical activity. Achab uses 
> psychotherapy to reconnect patients 
> with themselves, their life objectives and 
> their social environment.
> To date, the task of clinicians 
> has been made harder by the lack of 
> consensus regarding the nature of the 
> condition they are treating. “The lack of 
> clarity around the definition of gaming 
> disorder not only makes it harder to de-
> velop appropriate treatment and public 
> health policy, it also stands in the way of 
> effective monitoring and surveillance,” 
> Higuchi says.
> It was partly to address this issue that 
> WHO initiated a four-year consultation 
> process to explore public health impli-
> cations of gaming and establish clear 
> boundaries for ‘gaming disorder’. The 
> classification derived from that consulta-
> tion was published in the 11th edition of 
> the International statistical classification 
> of diseases and related health problems 
> (ICD-11) the diagnostic classification 
> standard used by health professionals 
> ranging from hospital administrators to 
> clinicians and researchers. 
> According ICD-11, a diagnosis of 
> gaming disorder is appropriate for a 
> person who, over a period of at least 
> 12 months, lacks control over their 
> gaming habits, prioritizes gaming 
> over other interests and activities, and 
> continues gaming despite its negative 
> consequences.
> “
> The inclusion of 
> gaming disorder in 
> ICD-11 will facilitate 
> appropriate diagnosis 
> and treatment.”
> Vladimir Poznyak
> The decision to establish a new 
> diagnostic category and include it 
> in ICD-11 has been welcomed by 
> psychologists and psychiatrists world-
> wide, including members of the Royal 
> College of Psychiatrists in the United 
> Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
> Ireland and Division 50 of the Ameri-
> can Psychological Association (APA) 
> – the division focused on addiction 
> psychology.
> Not everyone is happy, however. 
> Gaming industry associations and 
> some mental health professionals and 
> academics have argued that, given the 
> current state of knowledge regarding 
> the impact of gaming on individuals, the 
> inclusion is premature, and is likely to 
> lead to overdiagnosis while also feeding 
> into moral panic about on-line gaming 
> and stigmatization of gamers.
> Critics making these arguments 
> cite the APA’s decision to enter ‘inter-
> net gaming disorder’ as a ‘condition for 
> further study’, in the 2013 Diagnostic 
> and Statistical Manual of Mental Disor-
> ders (DSM-5), a designation signifying 
> that further research is required before 
> it can be accepted as a valid diagnostic 
> category.
> WHO’s Pozynak points out that the 
> inclusion of gaming disorder in ICD-11 
> was based on the conclusions of experts 
> from more than 20 countries, as well as 
> evidence of increasing internet-gaming-
> related treatment demand. 
> As for concerns regarding over-
> diagnosis and stigmatization, Poznyak 
> is sceptical. “The inclusion of gaming 
> disorder in ICD-11 will facilitate ap-
> propriate diagnosis and treatment as 
> well as the monitoring, surveillance and 
> research required to get a clearer picture 
> of the prevalence and impact of the 
> condition,” he says, adding that WHO 
> is currently working with partners on 
> the development of an evidence-based 
> screening and diagnostic interview to 
> support clinicians.
> According to Dr Charles O'Brien, 
> Professor of Psychiatry at the University 
> of Pennsylvania, and chair of the APA 
> committee that decided to include inter-
> net gaming disorder in DSM-5 under the 
> ‘condition for further study’ rubric, the 
> classification is currently under review.
> “There have been a lot of devel-
> opments since 2013, and we have the 
> option to change the disorder classifica-
> tion if we consider it appropriate,” says 
> O’Brien. 
> Higuchi welcomes any move to-
> wards clearer diagnosis, and greater 
> recognition of the disorder. “The ICD-
> 11 classification will help with that,” he 
> says. He also welcomes WHO’s decision 
> to publish guidelines on physical activity 
> for children under 5 years of age, which 
> recommend, among other things, that 
> children in their first year of life should 
> have no screen time and very little in 
> their second, while those aged 2 to 4 
> years, should spend no more than an 
> hour a day in front of a screen. 
> “It’s time to set limits,” Higuchi 
> says. ■
> Patients undergoing treatment for gaming disorder socialize as part of their therapy, Kurihama Medical and 
> Addiction Centre.
> Courtesy of Kurihama Medical and Addiction Centre
> 

## Text Simplified

> دليل أمان رقمي بعنوان Gaming Disorder Focus WHO يوضح مخاطر التقنية على الأطفال وسبل الحماية والوقاية.

## Raw JSON

<details>
<summary>Click to view raw JSON</summary>

```json
{
  "id": "b37a6dcf-3b48-41df-9837-4460b5f64179",
  "domain": "digital_safety",
  "source_file": "Gaming_Disorder_Focus_WHO.pdf",
  "source_url": "",
  "title": "Gaming Disorder Focus WHO",
  "language": "en",
  "age_group": "unspecified",
  "behavior_type": "digital",
  "text_original": "382\nBull World Health Organ 2019;97:382–383 | doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.2471/BLT.19.020619\nNews\nDr Susumu Higuchi has no doubt about \nthe mental health risks posed by on-line \ngaming.\nHe heads the Kurihama Medical \nand Addiction Centre in Kanagawa \nPrefecture, Japan, which started the \ncountry’s first programme for internet \naddiction in 2011. There are now 84 \nnationwide. Higuchi has watched the \nnumber of patients addicted to on-line \ngaming steadily grow.\n“Of the 269 patients we now see \nfor internet addiction, 241 have gaming \ndisorder as their principal addiction”, he \nsays. “Of those, 215 are males.”\nThe patients Higuchi sees display \na range of symptoms, but are generally \nunable to limit the time they spend gam-\ning and continue to play despite negative \nconsequences, such as dropping out of \nschool (almost three quarters of the \npatients are students) or losing a job.\nNo national survey of gaming dis-\norder has been undertaken in Japan. \nHowever, a recent national survey of \nthe broader category of “internet addic-\ntion” reported that approximately 1.82 \nmillion males 20 years of age and older, \nwere living with an internet addiction \nin 2018, almost three times the number \nreported in 2013. The same survey re-\nported 1.3 million adult females living \nwith internet addiction, up from 0.5 \nmillion in 2013.\nHiguchi co-authored a recent lit-\nerature review - Cross-sectional and \nlongitudinal epidemiological studies of \ninternet gaming disorder – that found a \nprevalence of internet gaming disorder \nin the samples reviewed ranging from \n0.7% to 27.5%.\n“The literature review revealed \nthat geographical region made little \ndifference to prevalence,” says Vladi-\nmir Poznyak, an expert on substance \nuse and addictive behaviours at the \nWorld Health Organization (WHO), \nwho points to several surveys showing \ninternet gaming disorder prevalence \nbetween 1%-10% in Europe and North \nAmerica.\n“Because of differences in survey \nquality and comparability, the exact size \nand nature of that problem is yet to be \ndefined,” he says, “but it is clear there is \na problem.”\nIn Switzerland, a report commis-\nsioned by the Federal Office of Pub-\nlic Health published in 2018 found that \naround 1% of the population (approxi-\nmately 70 000 people) are “problematic” \ninternet users.\nOne of the experts consulted for \nthat report – Dr Sophia Achab – runs \na behavioural addiction programme \nat the University Hospital of Geneva \nwhere, since 2007, she has been treating \npatients for internet-use disorders rang-\ning from addiction to on-line gambling \nto internet pornography.\n“\nAddiction to \ngaming is harder to \ntreat than addiction \nto alcohol or drugs \nbecause the internet is \neverywhere.”\nSusumu Higuchi\nLike Higuchi, Achab has seen a \nsteady increase in on-line gaming dis-\norder patients, as well as an increasing \nproportion of younger, male patients. \n“Today, 43 of our 110 patients with in-\nternet addiction are primarily addicted \nto gaming, 40 of them boys and young \nmen, and just three girls,” she says.\nAmong the people that have left \nthe deepest impression on Achab, was \na 22-year-old man who was brought \nin by his mother. “He had dropped out \nof school two years earlier and refused \nto leave his room where he played for \n18 hours a day. He was suffering blood \nclots in his legs due to physical inactiv-\nity,” she says.\nTreating such patients is extremely \nchallenging, partly because of the \nubiquity of the internet. “In some ways \naddiction to gaming is harder to treat \nthan addiction to alcohol or drugs be-\ncause the internet is everywhere,” says \nHiguchi.\nAnother challenge is the way the \ngames themselves are designed.\nThe nature of the game played is \none of the three factors considered by \nAchab in her assessment of patient expo-\nsure to addiction risk, the others being \nindividual factors, such as self-esteem, \nand environmental factors, such as the \nhome, school or work environment.\nFor Achab, the presence of reward \nsystems (often mediated through virtual \n‘loot boxes’) offering virtual items such \nas weapons and armour or ‘real’ rewards, \nsuch as video streaming subscriptions, \nare red flags. “Rewards drive players to \nrack up the hours in pursuit of virtual or \nreal-world gains,” she explains.\nSharpening the focus on gaming disorder\nThe definition of gaming disorder is an important first step in developing a public health response to a new problem. \nGary Humphreys reports.\nStaff at the Kurihama Medical and Addiction Centre, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan.\nCourtesy of Kurihama Medical and Addiction Centre\n383\nBull World Health Organ 2019;97:382–383| doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.2471/BLT.19.020619\nNews\nFor Higuchi, multiplayer on-line \ngames are also a matter of concern. “Such \ngames provide opportunities to play and \ncompete with others, which would be \ncompelling for most people, but particu-\nlarly for those who might otherwise find \nit hard to socialize,” he says.\nHiguchi also points to games that \nencourage players to compete in tour-\nnaments and competitions for prize \nmoney. “Many of my patients talk about \nmaking a living from game play,” he \nsays. “This belief feeds into the broader \npathology.”\nApproaches to treating those with \non-line gaming disorder tend to focus \non getting the patient to recognize their \naddiction and to reconnect them with \nreality. Higuchi uses a mix of cognitive \nbehavioural therapy, social skills devel-\nopment, and treatment programmes em-\nphasising physical activity. Achab uses \npsychotherapy to reconnect patients \nwith themselves, their life objectives and \ntheir social environment.\nTo date, the task of clinicians \nhas been made harder by the lack of \nconsensus regarding the nature of the \ncondition they are treating. “The lack of \nclarity around the definition of gaming \ndisorder not only makes it harder to de-\nvelop appropriate treatment and public \nhealth policy, it also stands in the way of \neffective monitoring and surveillance,” \nHiguchi says.\nIt was partly to address this issue that \nWHO initiated a four-year consultation \nprocess to explore public health impli-\ncations of gaming and establish clear \nboundaries for ‘gaming disorder’. The \nclassification derived from that consulta-\ntion was published in the 11th edition of \nthe International statistical classification \nof diseases and related health problems \n(ICD-11) the diagnostic classification \nstandard used by health professionals \nranging from hospital administrators to \nclinicians and researchers. \nAccording ICD-11, a diagnosis of \ngaming disorder is appropriate for a \nperson who, over a period of at least \n12 months, lacks control over their \ngaming habits, prioritizes gaming \nover other interests and activities, and \ncontinues gaming despite its negative \nconsequences.\n“\nThe inclusion of \ngaming disorder in \nICD-11 will facilitate \nappropriate diagnosis \nand treatment.”\nVladimir Poznyak\nThe decision to establish a new \ndiagnostic category and include it \nin ICD-11 has been welcomed by \npsychologists and psychiatrists world-\nwide, including members of the Royal \nCollege of Psychiatrists in the United \nKingdom of Great Britain and Northern \nIreland and Division 50 of the Ameri-\ncan Psychological Association (APA) \n– the division focused on addiction \npsychology.\nNot everyone is happy, however. \nGaming industry associations and \nsome mental health professionals and \nacademics have argued that, given the \ncurrent state of knowledge regarding \nthe impact of gaming on individuals, the \ninclusion is premature, and is likely to \nlead to overdiagnosis while also feeding \ninto moral panic about on-line gaming \nand stigmatization of gamers.\nCritics making these arguments \ncite the APA’s decision to enter ‘inter-\nnet gaming disorder’ as a ‘condition for \nfurther study’, in the 2013 Diagnostic \nand Statistical Manual of Mental Disor-\nders (DSM-5), a designation signifying \nthat further research is required before \nit can be accepted as a valid diagnostic \ncategory.\nWHO’s Pozynak points out that the \ninclusion of gaming disorder in ICD-11 \nwas based on the conclusions of experts \nfrom more than 20 countries, as well as \nevidence of increasing internet-gaming-\nrelated treatment demand. \nAs for concerns regarding over-\ndiagnosis and stigmatization, Poznyak \nis sceptical. “The inclusion of gaming \ndisorder in ICD-11 will facilitate ap-\npropriate diagnosis and treatment as \nwell as the monitoring, surveillance and \nresearch required to get a clearer picture \nof the prevalence and impact of the \ncondition,” he says, adding that WHO \nis currently working with partners on \nthe development of an evidence-based \nscreening and diagnostic interview to \nsupport clinicians.\nAccording to Dr Charles O'Brien, \nProfessor of Psychiatry at the University \nof Pennsylvania, and chair of the APA \ncommittee that decided to include inter-\nnet gaming disorder in DSM-5 under the \n‘condition for further study’ rubric, the \nclassification is currently under review.\n“There have been a lot of devel-\nopments since 2013, and we have the \noption to change the disorder classifica-\ntion if we consider it appropriate,” says \nO’Brien. \nHiguchi welcomes any move to-\nwards clearer diagnosis, and greater \nrecognition of the disorder. “The ICD-\n11 classification will help with that,” he \nsays. He also welcomes WHO’s decision \nto publish guidelines on physical activity \nfor children under 5 years of age, which \nrecommend, among other things, that \nchildren in their first year of life should \nhave no screen time and very little in \ntheir second, while those aged 2 to 4 \nyears, should spend no more than an \nhour a day in front of a screen. \n“It’s time to set limits,” Higuchi \nsays. ■\nPatients undergoing treatment for gaming disorder socialize as part of their therapy, Kurihama Medical and \nAddiction Centre.\nCourtesy of Kurihama Medical and Addiction Centre\n",
  "text_simplified": "دليل أمان رقمي بعنوان Gaming Disorder Focus WHO يوضح مخاطر التقنية على الأطفال وسبل الحماية والوقاية.",
  "keywords": [],
  "created_at": "2026-06-05T21:37:47.501813+00:00"
}
```
</details>
